Tailwindcss is a utility-first css framework.

It is a collection of pre-defined classes that you can use to style your HTML elements. It means, for every css property, there is a tailwind class that you can use to style that property.

Using Tailwind via CDN - Doing this is good for practice projects but in case of production build, it is not recommended as it.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Tailwindcss</title>
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/@tailwindcss/browser@4"></script> 
    <!-- this bit of code line above will allow us to implement tailwind in our html -->
</head>
<body>
    <h1 class="bg-green-700">Tailwindcss</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

We see the h1 here is converted to font-size 16px (default).

Now in general, we will use tailwind via `Tailwind CLI` as it is better for production build.

CLI -> Command Line Interface

Follow the following steps:

1. Make your current project an NPM project, do:

```ssh
npm init -y
```

`-y` means yes to all (yes to all questions). So no questions will be asked to us while creating a package.json file.

2. Next bring in tailwind:

```ssh
npm install -D tailwindcss@3
```

tailwind will go to devDependencies (hence -D).

We also get a package-lock.json file

3. Bring on this:

```ssh
npx tailwindcss init
```

4. Next, do this in tailwind.config.js:

```ssh
  content: ["./src/**/*.{html,js}"],

```

It means our html and js file which will be scanned by tailwind is inside the `src folder`.

So let us keep index.html inside a src folder.

5. Next make an `input.css` file inside the src folder and inside it, add the following code:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Now there are some warning lines appearing here, we can remove it via:

File > Preferences > Settings > Type (unknown) > CSS Lint: unknown at rules > Select ignore

6. Finally run this command in terminal:

```ssh
npx tailwindcss -i ./src/input.css -o ./src/output.css --watch
```

It means switch on tailwindcss `-i -> input file source mentioned`, `-o create an output file here in the source mentioned`, and `--watch means keep watching the output files`.

7. Lastly, link this output file in our index.html


```html
  <link href="./output.css" rel="stylesheet">
```

Our code works now:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Tailwindcss</title>
    <link href="./output.css" rel="stylesheet">
</head>
<body>
    <h1 class="bg-blue-700">Tailwindcss</h1>
</body>
</html>
```

@tailwind base;
@tailwind base;
@tailwind base;
All this tailwind classes effect is coming from `@tailwind base;` in input.css file. Remove it and there is no code in output.css file and all tailwindcss effects are wiped out.


- `@tailwind base` is responsible for bringing in all the inbuilt ready made css in output.css

- `@tailwind utilities` is responsible for bringing in all the css generated by the user (by adding classes in index.html) in output.css

Arbitrary (exact) values in tailwindcss

`h-[377px]` means height of 377px exactly.

### We always do ` npx tailwindcss -i ./src/input.css -o ./src/output.css --watch` whenever we want to restart our tailwind in terminal, but doing it every time is pretty tiresome, so we do this in package.json file:


```json
  "scripts": {
    "tailwind": " npx tailwindcss -i ./src/input.css -o ./src/output.css --watch" 
  },
```

Now, we just do `npm run tailwind` in the terminal and we see our changes reflecting here, just like before, when we used that long command!!!
